You should already know how
the results are created and
also be familiar with the
main sizes that you inform us
about such as gross margin,
EBITDA, EBIT or net profit
or performance result.
In this class, what we will see briefly
is, once we have already calculated
the result of the exercise, we will
see how we transfer it to the
situation balance sheet
and how the status of results and
the situation balance sheet are
related.
Let us take a brief look at
the accounting process we have seen earlier.
The first site where the movements
are recorded is in the daily book,
which chronologically and every
day the accountants are going
to record each of the movements.
From there, they are transferred
to each of the accounts, to individual
accounts, they are transferred to those
movements and in the accounts
what we do is calculate the balance
of each account, of banks,
social capital, etc.
At the end of the period, we transfer
this balance to the financial
statements, which, as we saw, are
a summary of all transactions
and all the movements
that have been generated.
As I said, financial statements
are related to each other.
In this case, in this class what we
will see is how the state of results,
in particular the magnitude,
the net profit, is related, as we
transfer it to the situation
balance sheet.
We have the results state where
we calculate the outcome of the exercise.
Well, now we have to see what
a company does with the result
of the exercise.
Companies have two options: they
can distribute net profits in
the form of dividends among their
partners or leave them in the
company, that is, they can reinvest them.
The dividend policy must respond
to strategic decisions.
For example, if you want to grow,
if you are in a growing market or
have the opportunity to grow within
your market or through international
expansion or product
development, etc.
The normal thing is that you reinvest
a lot of the profits because
you have to finance that growth.
Or if you're going to have to make
investments in fixed assets in the
short term.
In this case, it will need to
be considered and re-invested.
This policy is known as payout
and the formula is basically the percentage
of dividends that are distributed
over profits, the percentage of
profits that are distributed
to the partners.
Well, since once we already
know what the amount of profits
that have not been distributed,
that part increases the
net profit of the company,
obviously.
And it must be considered within
the balance sheet in this account,
in the account of undistributed
profits.
Net assets are equal to the initial
contributions of the partners
in the form of social capital
or subsequent if a capital increase
has been made plus all the
benefits that are generated
and are not distributed
between the partners.
This increases the net
worth of the company over
the years.
Let us see it from another perspective.
Net assets are equal to the
total assets less debt,
less liabilities.
If a net asset increase has
occurred in a period,
it must be due to a movement,
a variation in some of
the other blocs.
Take this case for example.
Here's the evolution from year
1 to year 2 of a company that
has earned a net profit
of $100,000.
Well, in the balance we can see
what has been the evolution, that
is, where the variation has occurred.
In this case, as we see, the
liability is the same in year 1 and
year 2 and what has increased has
been the asset.
The asset has increased during
that period by $100,000 which
is equal to net profit.
And this same company, if we go
to the year 3, gets a net
profit of $200,000.
But in this case what we see is that
the asset has remained the same between
year 2 and year 3.
What is what happened?
Well, it has decreased the liability
by $200,000 which is equal to the
net profit.
This, if we return to the equation
we have said that we have just commented
on that the net asset is equal to the
assets, to the investments that
have made less to the liabilities,
because it is well understood.
So, let's make a final
summary.
In the state of results that
we have on screen we get the
magnitude of the exercise
result to net profit.
The company decides what to do with
that net profit and defines its payout.
You can either divide it
or reinvest it within the
company.
And the amount we decide
to reinvest within the company
is incorporated into the
balance sheet by increasing
the net asset in a account
called undistributed profits.
The balance sheet is squared
so that in the next period
the assets minus liabilities
are equal to net assets or
the assets are equal to net
assets plus liabilities.